## Introduction

The generic LEDE/OpenWRT builds use only the "./src/unum" and "./files"
subtrees of the repository. The build and install are driven by the package
Makefile in the LEDE repo, see under "./local-feeds/minim/unum-v2"

All the LEDE builds use the MODEL set to "lede_generic", but pass the 
specific hardware type to make in the "HARDWARE" variable. The type is 
generated by concatenating CONFIG_VERSION_HWREV and CONFIG_VERSION_PRODUCT
variables from the LEDE build config.

The firmware version number is generated by the LEDE build and pulled out
by the agent from the "/etc/openwrt_release" file (DISTRIB_RELEASE var).
The agent has its own version that is generated if it is built separately
from the firmware (only happens during development, it is based on time).
For the release builds the agent version and the firmware version are the
same.

## Platforms

Following platforms are supported so far.
 - TPLink Archer C7 v2/v4/v5
 - GL.iNet B1300

Following are also supported, but "support is being phased out".
 - Linksys WRT1900CS
 - GL.iNet AR300M
 - TPLink WDR3600 V1

## Build

 LEDE/OpenWRT code with unum-specifc build config files is here:
 https://github.com/violetatrium/lede

 Make sure unum-sdk is accessisble from the lede repo directory as ../unum-sdk.

 Build can be started with the following command (in the lede repo directory):
 ./build -d &lt;platform name&gt;
 
 For example to build for TP Link Archer C7 v4,
 ./build -d archer_c7_v4


## Troubleshooting

* Where can I find log files for Unum?
  * Logs are written to `/var/log/unum.log`, `/var/log/http.log`, and 
    `/var/log/monitor.log`.
